2019-04-20-week-3-fail-log.md, before:

Week 3 and I need a restart. Taking a 6 week course was a mistake as I am not having time to assimilate information. My normal modus is to work through something badly and then, and only then, I can understand the directions and do it right.
Happily I have now re-found my bookmark to Slack so things are better there.

(Monday) # Started the Restart by reviewing module 1
Reread the module 1 text and checked out the videos. Everything is up and running as directed. I still have problems finding the working space in Git and particular these repositories. I think the problem is that the explanation in the workbook did not give me a visual sense of what these are or where they are.

Googled <what are Git repositories>. Got Wikipedia explaining its a programming tool. Also Understanding Git: Repositories - sbf5.com
https://www.sbf5.com/~cduan/technical/git/git-1.shtml Am trying out its instructions to initiate a project which will hold the repositories. I notice the website's example commands look like terminal eg mkdir [project] / cd {change directory if I recall right} [project] / git init. I'll start by clicking directory
Created a new project "Work for DH Summer 2019". It appears to be a simple took for project planning. I have worked with many such beasts and never found them all that useful but I am almost always working alone. I added 3 columns (Module - Exercise - Blog). Checked out the menu box and saw I could close it and I could see a list of what I had done. Random typing of <git init> pointless. Tried to see how I could put in code as per the sbf5 site but didn't find anything. Closed the project and found it effectively disappeared so that I showed 0 projects. Got the list showing it and went in an deleted it.
  
I see I went wrong by not hitting create new file. I would like to bring my module 2 fail-log and this fail-lot out from under "patch 2" so they are visible in the repository list. Will start here by copying this material and then going back to the repository to get a new file there. Seems to be working. I will next try to delete the patch 2 version.

Next job is printing out some of the reading material for module 3 - can only read so much on-line.

Commit message:

work as of Tues May 23
Effort at DH confounded by failure with a dead command line; exercise 1 fine no problem

2019-04-20-week-3-fail-log.md, after:

Week 3 and I need a restart. Taking a 6 week course was a mistake as I am not having time to assimilate information. My normal modus is to work through something badly and then, and only then, I can understand the directions and do it right.
Happily I have now re-found my bookmark to Slack so things are better there.

(Monday) # Started the Restart by reviewing module 1
Reread the module 1 text and checked out the videos. Everything is up and running as directed. I still have problems finding the working space in Git and particular these repositories. I think the problem is that the explanation in the workbook did not give me a visual sense of what these are or where they are.

Re last week module 1 setting up the Git space. I do not have a sense of what this even with the exercise 3 intro. Need more material looking at it from a different perspective. Googled <what are Git repositories>. Got Wikipedia explaining its a programming tool. Also Understanding Git: Repositories - sbf5.com
https://www.sbf5.com/~cduan/technical/git/git-1.shtml Am trying out its instructions to initiate a project which will hold the repositories. I notice the website's example commands look like terminal eg mkdir [project] / cd {change directory if I recall right} [project] / git init. I'll start by clicking directory
Created a new project "Work for DH Summer 2019". It appears to be a simple tool for project planning. I have worked with many such beasts and never found them all that useful but I am almost always working alone. I added 3 columns (Module - Exercise - Blog). Checked out the menu box and saw I could close it and I could see a list of what I had done. Random typing of <git init> pointless. Tried to see how I could put in code as per the sbf5 site but didn't find anything. Closed the project and found it effectively disappeared so that I showed 0 projects. Got the list showing it and went in an deleted it.
  
I see I went wrong by not hitting create new file. I would like to bring my module 2 fail-log and this fail-lot out from under "patch 2" so they are visible in the repository list. Will start here by copying this material and then going back to the repository to get a new file there. Seems to be working. I will next try to delete the patch 2 version. [did this on Thursday as it occured to me the TA would be looking for this at the url I put in the weekly report.

Next job is printing out some of the reading material for module 3 - can only read so much on-line. Material read. Very much enjoyed Jose Igartua's comments. Have been checking Slack but I need to have actually tried the exercises to make sense of the comments. and I srill need to pull in through the virtual computer. Today's job.

I set up the DH environment in week 1 without problem taking care of steps 1 through 3. But its not responding as I try to get back in through the bookmark I had set (two tries). Will try the workbook link - again not reachable. Gave up and created a new dh box.
Have llooked at the home page and then logged out and logged back in again. Selected file manager that looks like it will work fine. Selected command line and got a blank page on which I cannot type, paste or anything else.

*Module 2 Work*
Will take these as far as I can despite the command line problem.

Ecercise 1 - Explore the databases. Searched for a metal smith ie a Smith "faber ferrarius" but got an error message. Ah well, us skilled artisans often did not get into the top billing.

Will not search for "Smith" in the war graves as I do not wish to be overwhelmes by hits but will look for two more useful names from my genealogical work - a middle of the pack name SELL and an obscure name VALLELY / VALLILLEE. For the Sells found 47 records. For the Vallely's 12 and for Vallillee 12 - what I expected. 
Downloaded the Sell file and then went to file manager and uploaded it to DH. Might aS well keep it there. However, it is also on my computer on the desktop as sellfile.csv
No issues
